Adds some examples on how to customize the built in indexes. (#2096)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Searching/Examine/Indexing/index.md

Examine has changed quite a bit in Umbraco 8 (and by "a bit" we really mean a lot). In Umbraco 7 everything was configured in the two Examine config files - in Umbraco 8 everything happens through C#.

## Customizing the built in indexes

You can modify the built in indexes in several ways:

* Events - giving you control over exactly what data goes into them and how the fields are configured
* Changing the field value types to change how values are stored in the index
* Changing the IValueSetValidator to change what goes into the index
* Take control of the entire index creation pipeline to completely change the implementation

### Changing field value types

> By default Examine will store values into the Lucene index as "Full Text", meaning it will be indexed and analyzed for a textual search but if a value that you are storing in a field is numerical or a date/time or another specific value type then you might want to change how this is stored in the index to take advantage of some features such as numerical range or date features, etc...

Author: Have made some minor changes

There is some documentation about this in the [Examine documentation](https://shazwazza.github.io/Examine/configuration).

The easiest way to modify how a field is configured is using a custom component, for example:

```c#
// register the component
public class CustomizeIndexComposer : ComponentComposer<CustomizeIndexComponent> { }

public class CustomizeIndexComponent : IComponent
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;

    public CustomizeIndexComponent(IExamineManager examineManager)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
    }

    public void Initialize()
    {
        // get the external index
        if (!_examineManager.TryGetIndex(UmbracoIndexes.ExternalIndexName, out IIndex index))
            return;

        // add a custom field type
        index.FieldDefinitionCollection.TryAdd(new FieldDefinition("price", FieldDefinitionTypes.Double));

        // modify an existing field type (not recommended)
        index.FieldDefinitionCollection.AddOrUpdate(new FieldDefinition("parentID", FieldDefinitionTypes.FullText));
    }

    public void Terminate()
    {
    }
}
```

## Changing IValueSetValidator

> An `IValueSetValidator` is responsible for validating a `ValueSet` to see if it should be included in the index and/or filtering the data in the `ValueSet`. For example, by default the validation process for the ExternalIndex checks if a `ValueSet` has a category type of either "media" or "content" (not member), if a `ValueSet` was passed to the ExternalIndex that did not pass this requirement it would just be ignored.

Reviewer: This sentence was a bit tough to split up. Does the whole section still make sense? 🤔

```suggestion
An `IValueSetValidator` is responsible for validating a `ValueSet` to see if it should be included in the index and/or filtering the data in the `ValueSet`. For example, by default the validation process for the ExternalIndex checks if a `ValueSet` has a category type of either "media" or "content" (not member). If a `ValueSet` was passed to the ExternalIndex and it did not pass this requirement it would be ignored.
```

    {
        // replace the default IUmbracoIndexConfig definition
        composition.RegisterUnique<IUmbracoIndexConfig, CustomIndexConfig>();
    }
}

// inherit from the default
public class CustomIndexConfig : UmbracoIndexConfig, IUmbracoIndexConfig
{
    public CustomIndexConfig(IPublicAccessService publicAccessService) : base(publicAccessService)
    {
    }

    // explicit implementation - overrides base class.
    // GetMemberValueSetValidator is used for the MemberIndex.
    IValueSetValidator IUmbracoIndexConfig.GetMemberValueSetValidator()
    {
        // NOTE - by default Umbraco only includes a small subset of fields for the member index for
        // security reasons, however you may want to include a larger set of data in the member index.
        // This example will include all data for a member excluding the built in property values.

        // all built in member properties to exclude (i.e. Password question, etc...)
        var excludeFields = Constants.Conventions.Member.GetStandardPropertyTypeStubs().Keys;

        // include everything except the above
        return new MemberValueSetValidator(null, null, null, excludeFields);
    }
}
```

> If you are using a version of umbraco before 8.4.0 then to do this you will need to modify the index creation (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a version of Umbraco before 8.4.0 then to do this you will need to modify the index creation (see below).
```

### Overriding index creation

> You can completely take control of the whole Umbraco index creation logic by replacing the default implementation of `IUmbracoIndexesCreator`. You might want to do this to customize the default analyzer used in the built in indexes, change the `IValueSetValidator`, modify field definitions, change the location of where the indexes are stored, or potentially completely replace the indexes with your own entirely custom implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can completely take control of the whole Umbraco index creation logic by replacing the default implementation of `IUmbracoIndexesCreator`. 

A few examples of why you might want to do override the index creation:

* To customize the default analyzer used in the built in indexes
* Change the `IValueSetValidator`
* Modify field definitions
* Change the location of where the indexes are stored, or 
* Completely replace the indexes with your own entirely custom implementation
```

As an example, to change the `IValueSetValidator` for the MemberIndex in the above example:

```c#
public class CustomizeIndexComposer : IUserComposer
{
    public void Compose(Composition composition)
    {
        // replace the default IUmbracoIndexesCreator definition
        composition.RegisterUnique<IUmbracoIndexesCreator, CustomUmbracoIndexesCreator>();
    }
}

// override the default creator
public class CustomUmbracoIndexesCreator : UmbracoIndexesCreator
{
    public CustomUmbracoIndexesCreator(IProfilingLogger profilingLogger, ILocalizationService languageService, IPublicAccessService publicAccessService, IMemberService memberService, IUmbracoIndexConfig umbracoIndexConfig)
        : base(profilingLogger, languageService, publicAccessService, memberService, umbracoIndexConfig)
    {
    }

>     // note - in umbraco 8.4 this method is obsoleted and it's advised to replace the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // note - in Umbraco 8.4 this method is obsoleted and it's advised to replace the
```
